---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
image: Leibniz_pic.png
---

Research data is essential to facilitate scientific progress, yet,
many valuable datasets are hidden on web sites and small repositories
or are hard to find due to insufficient metadata. Only a fraction of
researchers pro-actively share dataset metadata through public
portals, and curation of such metadata collections is costly. Unknown
Data will provide means to automatically discover, extract, and
publish metadata about research data that is hidden on the Web or in
scholarly publications. Thus, the project's goal is to **improve
findability and re-usability of research data** by (a) improving
metadata quality, in particular with respect to authority and use of
existing datasets and (b) uncovering datasets that are not yet
reflected in public data repositories and registries.

Our approach
1. utilises data citations from scholarly articles and web pages to
collect metadata about relevant datasets,
2. discovers datasets and their context by crawling web pages,
3. consolidates metadata by linking information from domain-specific
databases,
4. facilitates high metadata quality by establishing a
discipline-specific curation process, and (5) ensures long-term
availability of original data sources by archiving relevant web pages.

Obtaining metadata about research data directly from web sources and
publications is a novel approach, increasing the visibility of "long
tail" datasets while at the same time providing crucial insights into
the actual use and impact of (known) datasets. The results of this
project will benefit two disciplines, computer science and the social
sciences, through use case pilots. The [DBLP computer science
bibliography](https://dblp.org/) and the GESIS portals, accessible
through [GESIS Search](https://search.gesis.org/), are among the most
prestigious and widely-used metadata collections in their respective
fields. They both feed into many other search engines, such as Google
Dataset Search and CESSDA. Through Unknown Data, the effectiveness and
efficiency of researchers in common data search use cases will be
significantly improved by (1) creating a centralized and comprehensive
collection of metadata about research datasets for the first time in
computer science and (2) fundamentally improving quality and quantity
of dataset metadata in the social sciences.Dataset citations extracted
from web pages or publications which refer to datasets empower users
to judge the impact and authority of datasets. These are crucial
features for assessing the usefulness of research data and thereby can
boost its reuse.

All metadata collected in this project will be made publicly available
as linked open data and through REST APIs beyond the project's
duration. In doing so, we are actively contributing to making research
data findable, accessible, interoperable, and re-usable for both
machines and researchers (i.e., following the FAIR Data
Principles). All software products from this project will be made
available as open source and methods and code can be adapted to
further disciplines.
